So uh first of all good evening everyone and uh welcome to this uh briefing session of power next AI uh the hackathon which we are uh you know organizing with uh support from CPRI and uh MIT Bangalore. My name is Punendu Singha. I'm faculty at MIT Bangaluru. And it's my immense pleasure to welcome uh the director CPRI and all the experts uh from CPR who are going to be part of this hackathon and then I appreciate their time taking out from their hectic schedule to brief you all about the challenge statement. Before we uh begin the proceeding uh you know hearty congratulations to all the teams who could make it to this final round. It was a tough competitions. We had over 250 plus teams who had qualified and about 25 plus teams were shortlisted. And uh you know given the nature of uh the problem statement, we wanted the equal distribution of the teams have spread across these three problem statements. And hence we expected that you would uh put in your preferences and we have uh you know taken an honest uh step towards uh absolutely respecting your preferences whichever way it was uh in first come first sir and you have all gotten your uh assignment. uh believe me all these three problems are of equal importance to uh CPRI and uh in terms it means it these are of national importance as well right uh this session will essentially help you listen from the expert from CPRI what the challenge is all about what are they looking forward to in your solution uh what would be the success criteria as far as they are concerned and how would they like to see the last 24 hours when you come to MIT Bangalore uh you know starting from October 10th and you will be working all the way through to October 11th when you know the hackathon ends they would like to see what you will eventually do building upon the solutions from today till October 10th whatever you build eventually what would be that final final grinding of the last 24 hours right so that's basically would define how your solution is shaping up uh for eventually making it through so there are three problem statements uh and uh they are in order track one track two track three uh I would uh a request uh if Mr. Ara Chikari if you are here uh could you please uh uh request the expert who will be handling the track one or maybe I can pull out from the email also you have shared that uh let me just see if I can yeah good afternoon sir I think uh Dr. Rango Shishukumar has joined from the high voltage division. So he was the person behind the first uh problem statement which was given. So I think uh Dr. Sheshu >> sir sir I'm yes yes I'm available sir. >> So welcome Dr. Seu. Could you please uh just give the brief about the problem statement and uh maybe in the next uh 10 minutes you can summarize and then we'll have participants who are uh you know who have signed up for this particular problem statement we'll ask you questions. >> Yeah. Yeah. U shall I continue? >> Yes please. Uh >> yeah please. Yes please. >> Yeah. Yeah. Good evening to one and all. Uh this is Dr. Sesh Kumar. I'm from high voltage division. Uh uh so coming to the uh problem statement actually uh I'm working in high voltage division and in general we are uh uh generator. So I think uh uh uh students you might have an idea regarding about max generator impulse max generator voltage der we are working with that impulse voltage generator. So we are working actually around 3 MV impulse generator while testing for different uh uh insulators, transformers uh not only transformers, not only insulator, HD fuse set, disconnectors, VCB panels in general we used to do test with the with the help of impulse generator. So what uh here the exact uh problem statement. So while utilizing uh this impulse generator you have to set the impulse generator in such a way that as per the IEC standard you have to generate the lightning impulse waveform. Here I have taken one case study that is 400 KV insulator. I have taken. So as per the insulation B that is called basic insulation level changes the voltage level is also changes according to you have to adjust your uh circuit in such a way that so as per the IC standard you have to generate the standard impulse lightning waveform so every time you won't get that uh lightning impulse you know uh so whenever uh rainy season so sometimes lightning that sudden strikes lightning will happens the same that we are going to simulate and we are going to create here in such a that with the help of impulse generator. So at present engineers can calculate approximate settings and then perform several reducer voltage tri to adjust the front resistance because it almost around 9 ft 9 ft height. So every time someone has to climb up and changing the tail resistors front resistors and the charging resistors every time it will happen. So my intention is actually is one of the problem that I have seen every time people has to climb that much of height changing the tail and friend resisters as per our requirement. So in such a way that uh I have to find out uh adjust the I have to find out the circuit parameters in such a way that to adjust the front resistance, trail resistance, number of stages, charging voltage. So changes in insulator capacitance, divider capacitance, stray capacitance or in uh inductance or test layout can change the waveform. So here the proposal system first uses uh the impulse generator circuit equations to identify physically feasible settings and then applies uh here I have implemented one uh uh machine learning algorithm called k drivers a residual regression model to correct the difference between the simplified theoretical waveform and the expected practical waveform and finally it checks voltage rating and waveform tolerance requirements and recommends suitable resistor combinations. Um here one thing I have to mention >> here one thing here >> one thing I have to mention is uh students uh if you are um uh come belonging to the electrical department please be focused on the three parameters that is called resistor inductor and capacitor these three plays a major role in any industry so once if you understood the properly the concept of resistor the concept of inductor and the concept of capacitor where it exists Why it happens? Why it comes into the picture? If you really understood and if you really understood the characteriz characterization of the particular elements then you can able to understand in that element where it can be applicable where it can be useful where you can able to integrate all the things comes into the picture actually. So here my intention is I have to implement uh actually I have to reduce on actually the importance of this idea is not merely the machine learning is being used it's really uh it's a real significance is that addresses a practical high voltage laboratory problem. So existing problem is impulse generator setting depends upon required test voltage, number of error test generator stages, capacitance of the test object, measuring divider capacitors, stray capacitance of the test arrangement, strain loop inductance, generator efficiency and the combination of all the available resistors that are available in the laboratory and the physical arrangement of the test as well as the connecting leads. So with all these parameters uh existing problem is there. So I have to make it in in such a manner that uh if any layman has to come to the lab. So without uh because someone has a knowledge about on the particular equipment someone doesn't have a knowledge on the particular equipment. So someone has to come and test the object in such a way that how many number of stages are required how many tail resisttors are required how many flis are required so how many charging resistors are required whether the combination of series and parallel. So which combination all the things uh from that uh from that uh machine learning implementation that I have developed in such a method. So that I have developed one offline app for the demonstration that offline app indicates if you entered that the basic B level that is called basic insulation level of the test object. If you entered directly and uh directly it will calculate. So that's why I have the title itself physics model basel. So that's why um as per the IEC only I have taken all the mathematical equations and I have calculated uh with that help of calculation how many number of stages are required how many friend resistors are required how many tail resistors are required each and everything will comes into the picture. So here I have implemented one uh machine learning algorithm called weighted KN&N. Why I have chosen this uh algorithm is the first offline browser demonstration because it is one is lightweight and it can it can able to locally explainable to execute in JavaScript without any back end. So if we uh and in parallel actually uh we have generators as synthetic data so five standard regression models I think you might have an idea regarding about machine learning. So I don't want to focus on machine learning. What is meant by regression? What is meant by classification? So if you are familiar with the statistics and probability then you can able to understand the machine learning concept. So anyway the thing machine learning is mainly for prediction. So depending upon the classification of the problem whether comes into the classification or regression that you can able to identify. So here uh I have implemented five more regression models evaluated in Python in such a way that uh these uh machine learning algorithms can able to predict how much accuracy is there uh with kind of different you know different types of test going on in the laboratory that is lightning impulse switching impulse different different is there. So these are kind of advanced algorithms that I have implemented. So actually so why I have deployed KN&N is so the present deliverable is I mean a proof of concept. So KN&N allows uh uh to demonstrate the entire workflow to in a standard browser application without developing any uh model in the back end. So uh you can able to implement like SVR tree and assembled requires either explorating the train model into a browser compatible format and providing Python API. So, so this is my uh main aim and this is my problem uh problem statement. So, um uh for in a simple manner uh you can able to consider capacitor you can uh treat it as a water tank. Wtage you can treat it as a water pressure. Resistance is narrowess of pipe. So the width of the pipe. So as the width of the pipe increases. So water flow is more fast and the inductance is inerty of the water flow and the capacitance of the test object is another water tank connected to the like in the cascaded connection because in impulse generator all the uh capacitors have been charged in a parall manner while discharging process it can be able to connected in series in such a way that that huge amount of energy it can able to be um uh it can able to be uh focused on the test object. So entire energy has to be um enter voltage has to be uh appeared across the test object and it that test object is a bas is can able to withstand this uh impulse voltage or not. So this is called dialectric test we can say. So withstand that particular voltage or not that we are going to analyze it as per the IEC uh standards. So in general um because uh I can able to correlate this uh simple uh impulse max generator that is called impulse voltage generator. So we can treat it as an simple RLC circuit. So because uh suppose if you if you apply DC supply charges each capacitor through the charging resistor initially the capacitor is uncharged. So it acts like a short circuit. As the time passes the capacitor charges and current reduces in steady state. After sufficient time the capacitor behaves like an open circuit means the open circuit means there is no chance to flow to current. So during the discharge state when the spark gaps wherever spark gaps are triggered all stage capacitors are connected in series. So the charger capacitors discharge through the circuit inductance that is called we can say internal stray inductance wave shaping components or test objects because whenever wherever there is a I mean huge leads huge length leads so there is a stray inductance uh uh possibility is there. So this forms a series RLC circuit. Uh so for easy understand so as per the IC standard. So as per the IC standard so we have to maintain the front and tail time. Uh so the waveform so if you consider the waveform the impulse waveform see 30% to 90% it reaches the time that time is called T1 that is called front again that from 100% to again 50% is of the test voltage. So whatever be the voltage uh so it uh that that falling time is called tail time in general. So uh this is uh the basic problem. Uh so I want to make it I want to make it in a real time manner. Whatever uh the parameters that I have considered here is so a lot of parameters have been considered here that parameters uh like called uh uh I just want to say a few parameters uh uh I can say charging voltages. So maximum energy storage at the rated voltage. So I have considered here is 15 stage 15 stage means each stage around 2.5 kilojles because 2.5 into uh uh sorry two around um uh 15 each each state. >> Sorry for interruption Dr. Seu are you sharing something on the screen? >> No no if you want I can able to share one second. Uh >> okay no problem. It seemed like that you are referring to some document. So I thought maybe just check with you. Go ahead. Go ahead please. No need to share. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Because uh I have already shared the results and all the things. So that's why uh directly I have discussed with the real time problem. So what are the parameters that I have considered here? I'm because um number of stages state voltage stage voltage because I have considered here is 15 stage. Each stage how many capacitors are there here? Two capacitors. Each capacitor maximum is 100 KV. So this is the ideal condition 100 into 200 KV 200 KV into 15 stages total 3,000 KV that is called 3MV uh uh impulse voltage generator that I have considered here is so we are utilizing this impulse voltage generator in real time to produce or to simulate lightning impulse waveforms in such a way that whether the test object is going to be withstand with this voltage levels or not that I'm going to test the here the problem I have already discussed is I have to adjust my circuit in such a way that simply someone has come and enter the value with the someone has come and someone enter the value like suppose if I need 400 if I I'm going to test 400 KB insulator so the basic insulation level is suppose 1550 KB that is called basic insulation level when comes into the lighting impulse voltage with 10 test if it comes to the switching impulse that is called,50 so based on the uh input voltage level that is called BI level of the test object the circuit parameter has to be changed accordingly because uh if it comes to the picture when it comes to the lighting impulse 1.2 by 50 microconds 1 1.2 is front time. So so within 1.2 the voltage has been rised from 30% to the 90%. Again from 100% to again 50% that is called tail. So 1.2 2x 50 microcond is the standard time as per the IEC 600601 it is having some tolerance limit as per the as per the IEC plus or - 30 and plus or - 20%. So that can be allowable. So uh if you comes to the uh switching impulse circuit so switching impulse means 250 by 2500. So you know uh RLC elements. So if you add more resistance in the circuit what will happen to the current so current will obviously decreases. What is the property of resistance? So it always supports the flow of current. So uh we are maintaining uh resistance in such a way that so we have to maintain the switching time as 250 by 2,500 microconds. So in this way uh so I have uh I have implemented offline method in such a way that simply if you entered the voltage B level value so we can able to identify number of stages. So based on this actually input values called I have entered load capacitors. Uh number of sequence of pulses is two, discharging resistor value, charging resistor value and then charging resistor per stage because each stage is going to be connected with the help of charging resistor because capacitors have been charged through that with the help of charging resistors and tail resistors, front resistors. uh with all these parameters I have implemented mathematics based modeling so that I'm going to integrate the machine learning in such a way that so I'm going to analyze so whether whatever the evaluation process is going on whether it is correctly properly evaluated or not by predicting the metric by predicting the values in such a way that whatever the metrics that are associated with that machine learning algorithms that is mean high precision accuracy and um MAP or MSE RMS with with these values how uh the um your machine is going to evaluate how in an efficient or accurate manner. So with this so this is the initial uh step that I have that I took and I have done some uh initial work. So because when when uh this is for insulator I have done. So if you go for the transformers transformers is highly inductive in nature that we can't able to control the transients there comes the complexity there comes the highly complexity problem so if really uh students are really interesting on this aspect uh I'm telling one more point please make sure that three components plays a major role and you have to visualize in such a manner where it comes into the picture where not comes into the picture how the property is going to change. So you have to analyze by yourself then you can able to understand all this concept. So this is the initial work that I have done with this problem statement. So thank you to one and all and thanks for any questions from your side anybody wants to ask any question uh let me know once. So, so shu just to understand the one thing is that so already there was a problem with the parameter finding and we have already implemented something with&n basically. So now the students have to work towards it so that more it can be more accurate. >> Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes sir. Yes. Okay. Any questions from anyone? >> So I invite team leads uh of this high voltage problem who are going to work on it to ask Dr. Cesu any clarifying questions please just to inform we will be sharing uh a detailed document as well as data sheet which has been shared by Dr. Seeu with us uh so that he'll have some uh background on what is uh going to work on. So >> sir one uh one objective I just want to convey to the students uh uh listen students uh whatever the problem identified you are making it into an automation in such a way that suppose you are a person you have come to the actually you have come to the impulse voltage laboratory. So you have by inspecting there are 15 stages is there are 15 stages of the impulse train generator. So you don't know what is the value of inductance, what is the value of the uh strain inductance, what is the value of the load capacitance. and all you don't know but you might have an idea what is the test wtage of the what is the test objective voltage you know simply if you enter the voltage level in such a way that that entire evaluation has been um evaluating in such a way that how many number of error stages you required and uh how many uh combinations are required how many tail resistors are required how many front resistors are required so what will be the voltage divider so all the things comes into the And my u why I have integrated this machine learning algorithm is so to improve more accuracy. So so we are focusing on predicting the values in such a way that we are um uh we have to obtain more high more accuracy. So I have tested with few basic algorithms because the problem is a regression problem right because the values are keep on changing as the test value object as the test object value changes. So this is not a classification problem because the value is not a constant it's a keep on changing value. So with respect to the test object these values will changes. So how the machine learning algorithm is going to predict the value in an effective and high accuracy manner is very important. And the second stage is suppose if you give um uh if you give false voltage instead of correct wtage if you have you have entered false voltage. So in that stage also even though information even though if you have given a wrong voltage that your machine learning algorithm have to be evaluated in such an effective manner. So uh so here one case uh here one case you can able to add. So as I discussed just now so uh each and every uh every equipment has BI levels you can able to add in that uh app itself. I mean you can able to implement further itself with the module. So as per IC you can get the voltage values of the particular equipments. So you can add that component in that with the machine learning. So whether I have entered proper value or not also you may cross check it with that module itself also. So if you keep on increasing the complexity of the uh problem. So you can add n number of number of parameters. So in such a way that you will get you know high accuracy and as as you have implemented as you are going to implement the machine learning algorithms then only you can able to understand so which algorithm gives high precision or high accuracy. So what are the tuning parameters that you have done tuning in that machine learning algorithm you can claim to know and the final always I I have to say the word is keep focusing on uh three elements RLC if a DC supply is given to the uh capacitor inductor or resistor what will happen if a AC uh supply is given to the inductor resistor and capacitor these are the basic concepts so from this concept and you are more familiar with basics of electrical engineering you know how two resistors are connected in series. How two resistor connected in parallel? So what will be the effective value? What will be the effective value in series? If two capacitors are connected in series, if two capacitors are connected in parallel, if two inductors. So because each and every electrical equipment in the high voltage engineering always possesses three elements called resistor, inductor capacitor. So with these three elements you can able to understand the entire concept of the impulse voltage generator. So that's uh this background knowledge I'm giving to understand easily in such a way. uh that's why uh I have explained these three elements that's it from my side that's it enough information I have given to yes so Dr. Cesu there is a question >> yes please >> from uh Amish Pai he is asking good evening sir just to clarify we will have to make some sort of ML model to produce highly accurate results for testing >> yes yes not for testing actually here uh they are going to uh they are going to uh develop machine learning algorithm in such a way that how many number of stages are required required. How many front resistor are required? How many tail resistors are required? Uh so what will be the combination? So all the things uh with the help of machine learning algorithm they are going to test and evaluate s. Yes, correct. We are going to test here. The machine learning algorithm is going to evaluate sir. I think he might he might got the answer sir. >> Yeah he's saying thanks for that. >> Yeah. Yeah. Any other questions? So, Dr. Cesu, I'm going to share one document with you. >> Yes. uh you please have a look at it and uh just let us know if that is something we can publish along with the Excel sheet which you have shared with us. >> We will uh >> uh share that with the team leads. Uh >> please sir >> any other questions for uh Dr. su before we move to the next uh problem statement. Okay. So Dr. Set thank you very much. We have uh you know we will also share with student uh the team leads the document uh and the excel sheet and uh based on that uh they will >> raise the query to uh you know the coordinator and we will pass it on to you for your response >> as and when we get it. >> Thank you. >> So thank you very much and really appreciate your time for briefing the team. >> Yeah thank you sir.